United States Patent

[19]

Edge et al.

[54]

DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM FAULT

3.787818

DIAGNOSTIC ARRANGEMENTS
{75]

Inventors:

.

Assignee:

9 Arnold et ali... 340/172.5

Assistant Examiner— Michael C. Sachs

Plessey Handel und Investments
A.G., Zug. Switzerland

[57]

[21]

Appl. No.: 365,666

[52]
[SEP
[58]

Apr. 22, 1975

Attorney, Agent, or Firm—Scrivener, Parker,

Filed:

{30]

[45]

porthington. Bournemouth, both of

(22]

.

3,879,712

Primary Examiner—Gareth D. Shaw
.
oe,
:

Gordon Edge, Poole: George

&

{73]

W/1974

l11]

Scrivener & Clarke

May 31, 1973

The invention provides arrangements for diagnosing

faulty

nace

using

background job

diagnostic

processor

meso

is

provided

with

a

diagnostic

imterface

which is connectable toa processor-store bus, either

United Kinedom............... 26033/72

ne

equipment

software running in the on-line PP250 system. Each

Foreign Application Priority Data

June 3. 1972

ABSTRACT

irectly or

;

by way of a multiplexor, and which is ad-

dressable as part of the PP250 memory complex. Each

US. CM cece cccccssecsssceeeeecseceeeesnesees 340/172.5
diagnostic interface provides facilities for (i) forcing
Unt, Ch cece ccceeeeceeeeeeececeeeeeeeees Go6t 11/00 — data_patterns into the microbits and the data area
Field of Search............ 340/172.5: 235/153 AK
(highway HO). (ii) monitoring important points in the
References Cited

processor equipment such as highway HO, the dataout register, the microbits and (iii) various basic func-

UNITED STATES PATENTS

The diagnostic interface printed circuit boards are

6/1972

#8 t© be diagnostically exercised.

[56]

tions relative to the stopping of the micro-program.

Peso oes

Hioso

patford Ct AL ee Maorly2 8

3.688263

8/1972

Balogh, Jr. ct abo... 340/172.5

3.671.940

normally removed and inserted only when a processor

Kronies et al... 340/172.5

5 Claims, 4 Drawing Figures

—

SM1i

SM2

SM3

5

SAI

SA2

SA3

Px
roy N

|

l

"7
M

-

HFP

-

i

PON

a P

Po

ie

A

M

pow] |

opPMry

titi A

PBA

PBB

i

PBC

ca

co:

pp

CPUA

CPUB

CPUC

DI/FA

OI/FB

DI/FC

3.879.712

PATENTED APR 22 1975
SHEET 1 OF 4

SMt

SM2

SM3

SAt

SA2

SA3

a

&

>

N

aS

M

Pom
7

PD

wy

‘P

PBA

D

PDN

PRB

Vv

PBC

y

[Pp

Aw

A

=)

PM

|

M

pp

CPUA

CPUB

CPUC

DI/FA

DI/FB

DI/FC

4

4

3,879,712

2 1975
NTED
PATE APR 2
SHEET 2 OF 4

Y

[INST REG |

\

r HMPROG
|

Y

|

|
|
|
|

4
Lf

|

MBM

]
|

|

|
{|
|

>
\—
Lupa | UPB} |

.

aan © G

ML

GY

\VLGZ

sc

Y

OA

MS
as
l —~
e
_|
—~

Q @)

;

®

S¥GR8

¥GR7

ERG

BAR

TAR

GAR

—

u
ML

sé

[MREG]

DA

|

SM

<GEc

&

!

v

! onanntl CLK

|
|

!

CCL

|

|

et DACS

Gw3 Gw2
Ors @~ aw

[sr]

&)GW

_

¢ aws|

ap

——

AR

[Rea]

>

Jars

od

GWi i +® i
Gw4
> BC f>
ra (&)-—1 AW

Fig. 2a

AN

v

3,879,712

|

PATENTED APR22 1975
SHEET 3 OF 4

——7]

OUT

REG

Y

REG

/ BLOCK

StR

<

<

B

PB
a oa

1/F|~

>

]

wom.

Yo

OM

vw

MILL

IrHO

>
Y

v

Y

NY

yv

PM co

ooYy
Z

&

Je)

¥GR2

ZAR

AAR

GR4|

&¥GR3 ®

XGRS

ZAR

1AR +®) GRI
;

SAR

DI/F

3.879.712

PATENTEDAPR 221975
SHEET 4 OF 4

a

CONTROL

Block

- — - >

4

[77271

TEST

AREA

COMMON
FUNCTIONS

BLOCK
i

f

an

L/F

|

i

ri
i

|

ty

Lj
SPECIAL

FUNCTIONS

BLOCK

ae

ft DIAGN’IC
L/F

TT CONTROL PATHS
DATA PATHS

Fig. 3

3,879,712
2

1

diagnose the fault. The actual facilities built into the diagnostic interface will depend upon the design of the
processor module, however, they can be considered as
falling within three main groups. The first group provides facilities to inject any required value, (i) onto
some main internal data highway, (i1) onto the microprogram control store output and (iii) onto the micro-

DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM FAULT
DIAGNOSTIC ARRANGEMENTS

The present invention relates to data processing systems and is more particularly concerned with the provi-

sion of fault diagnostic arrangements in such systems.
With the advent of multi-processor systems for the
real-time control of communications systems and the
like it has become necessary to provide, within such
multi-processor systems, fault detection and isolation
facilities. Typical of such system facilities are those disclosed in the fault interrupt system of co-pending application Ser. No. 232,463 which culminate in a faulty

program contro] store address selector. The second
group provides facilities for monitoring vital points

within the processor module whereas the third group
provides miscellaneous control functions to allow specific processor module functional steps to be performed under diagnostic control.
The invention will be more readily understood from
the following description which should be read in conjunction with the drawings accompanying the provi-

processor being barred from access to any of the online applications programs. The faulty processor is confined to a repetative performance of a checkout pro-

gram thereby suspending the faulty equipment from the
on-line system. When a faulty processor is contained
within check-out an inter-processor check, running in
another processor, will notice that the processor
trapped in checkout is overdue and an appropriate report to a “fault handler’? process will be made. The
fault handler will then take the necessary actions to
reschedule the work currently allocated to the faulty
processor and produce, on a maintenance monitor, a
message indicating the identity of the faulty processor.
The testing and fault diagnosis routines required to
fully check-out and isolate a particular fault in a processor module of a multi-processor system requires
highgrade fully skilled and trained maintenance per-

sonnel. such personnel may not readily be available in
sufficient numbers and it has been suggested previously
that automatic diagnostic mechanisms should be provided in such circumstances.

Accordingly it is a prime object of the present invention to provide automatic diagnostic facilities in a multi-processor system which employs the processing abilities of the multi-processor system itself rather than by
the provision of special purpose diagnostic equipment.
According to the invention there is provided a digital
data processing system including a plurality of processor modules and a plurality of storage-modules and
each storage module incorporates an access unit which
includes an identity address recognition mechanism
and each processor module is provided with a unique
data communication path, providing processor module
access to all the storage modules, and processor module access to a storage location is performed by extending an address word on the processor module’s unique
data communication path defining (i) the identity address of the access unit of the storage module in which
the required location resides and (ii) the address of the
required location within that storage module, characterised in that each processor module incorporates a
diagnostic access unit which is connectable to one or
more of said unique data communication paths and
said access unit includes (i) an identity address recog-

nition arrangement (ii) an address decoder and (tii) a

plurality of address-decoder selectable monitor, con-

trol and data injecting points internal to the processing

equipment of the processor module.

By the provision of a diagnostic interface a faulty
processor may be tested by another processor module
performing a diagnostic program as a background job.
The facilities provided by the diagnostic interface allow
the diagnostic program to fully exercise the faulty processor and to monitor the results of such exercises to

sional specification. Of the drawings:FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of a typical multiprocessor system incorporating the invention,

20

FIGS. 2a and 26 show a block diagram of a typical
processor module incorporating a diagnostic interface
according to the invention and should be placed sideby-side with FIG. 26 on the right, while
FIG. 3 shows a block diagram of the diagnostic moni-

25

tor software.

The multi-processor system to which the invention is
more particularly, although not exclusively, suited is
shown in FIG. 1 and this type of system is disclosed in
our copending application Ser. No. 265,410 now US.
30 Pat. No. 3,787,818. The system consists of a plurality
of processor modules (CPUA, CPUB and CPUC), a
plurality of storage modules (SM1, SM2 and SM3), a
pair of multiplexors (MPXM and MPXN) and a plurality of peripheral equipments such as PD, PM and PP.
35 Each processor module is provided with a unique data
communication path or bus (PBA, PBB and PBC respectively) over which access to all storage modules
and all peripheral equipments is obtained. Each processor bus includes a parallel information signal highway
40
and a control signal highway in both directions. Each

storage module is provided with an access unit (SAI,

SA2 and SA3 respectively) upon which each processor

45

module bus is individually terminated. Each access unit
includes a module address identity recognition mechanism which is arranged to detect a “storage module access demand” indicated by the application of the stor-

age module’s identity address to a specified part of the
information signal highway of a processor bus. The ac30

cess units are also arranged to resolve concurrent con-

flicting access demands in a predetermined priority order.

A pair of multiplexors, MPXN and MPXM are pro-

vided in the system of FIG. 1 so that the peripheral

equipments are “‘buffered”’ from store module or pro-

cessor module additions. Each multiplexor is functionally the same as a store access unit, multiplexing peripheral demands onto the peripheral data communication paths or busses PDM and PDN. The peripheral
busses, PDM and PDN are each individually connected
60
to separate ports on the peripheral access units such as
PAD, PAM and PAP. The peripheral busses are similarly configured (i.e. having information and control
65

signal highways) to the processor module busses.
Each peripheral access unit includes an equipment
identity address recognition mechanism and a number

of processor-module-addressable administration registers (such as data-in, data-out, status and control regis-

3,879,712

3

4

ters). The peripheral equipments shown are typical
only and signify a disc PD, a diagnostic monitor typewriter equipment PM and a page printer PP.

Included in the accumulator register stack is the se-

quence control register SCR which at all times defines
the absolute store address of the current instruction

The system is organised such that the processor modules simply perform “read” and “write” bus operations
when information is to be communicated from or to a

word.
The data area, which stores and manipulates the in-

formation being processed by the processor module, is
controlled by data area manipulation control signals
DAMS. These control signals are produced by a set of

storage location or a peripheral equipment. In the case
of the storage location the read or write operation ts
specified by the code set onto the control signal highan address on the information signal highway of the

toggles known as micro-bits (UPB). The microprogram area sets and resets these micro-bits as required together with a set of toggles known as the mi-

processor bus. The address defies (i) the storage mod-

cro-program address toggles (UPA).

way section of the processor bus and is accompanied by

10

ule in which the required location resides and (ii) the

The micro-program area “PROG consists of (i) a

address of the required location within the particular

register having some 150 bits, for the UPA and UPB

storage module. Similarly when information is to be

micro-bits, (ii) a decoder DEC, (iii) a slot matrix SM,

read from or written into a peripheral equipment the

(iv) a micro-bit matrix MBM, (v) a block of combina-

read or write operation code is accompanied by an ad-

tional

logic

CCL

dress on the information highway of the bus defining (1)

DACS

and

(vl) a micro-program slot control clock

data

area

conditional

signals

CLK. The instructions of the processor, as defined by

a multiplexor, (ii) the peripheral equipment required
and (in) the addressable administration register within

for

20

the instruction word in the INSTREG, are implemented

the peripheral equipment. This allows the processor

by a series of micro-programs, each micro-program

module (i) to write to the peripheral equipment’s con-

consisting

trol register to exercise control over the functioning of

instructions or slots. The processor is advanced from
one slot to the next by the clock CLK. The next slot

the peripheral equipment including its access unit, (ii)

to write to the data-out register information for pas-

25

of several

sequentially

performed

micro-

being selected by the UPA address operating on the

sage-on and manipulation by the peripheral equipment,

slot matrix. The current data area conditions signals

(iit) to read from the status register to define the current functional state of the peripheral equipment im-

DACS also condition the slot matric which produces
for each slot a set of micro-bits which condition the
processor module in the execution of the micro-

cluding the access unit and (iv) to read from the data-in
register information for passage into the control pro-

30

instruction, and hence micro-programs, for each machine instruction.

cessing system.

One of the peripheral busses, bus PDN in the case

The diagnostic interface unit DI/F, shown below the

shown in FIG. 1, is extended to the access path of
a di-

line Z—Z in FIGS. 2a and 2, includes a peripheral bus
access unit which is formed by an address register AR,

agnostic interface (DI/FA, DIYFB and DI/FC respectively) of each processor module. EAch diagnostic in-

35

and address decoder AD and a bus control signal cir-

cuit BC. The diagnostic interface unit also includes ar-

terface is functionally identical to that of the peripheral

rangements (gates GR1 to GR8& inclusive) for extractaccess units in that it includes an identity address recing information from the data area (gates GR1 to GR6
ognition mechanism and a plurality of addressable
inclusive) and the micro-program area (gates GR7 and
monitor points and registers analagous to the adminis40
GRS8) for passage over the peripheral bus PDN. The ditration registers.
agnostic interface unit further mcludes arrangements
Under normal on-line system working circumstances

the diagnostic interface equipment, shown in block diagram form in FIGS. 2a and 24 as DHF, is “removed” so
that faulty processor module access, by way of the diagnostic interface, to a good processor module is prevented. When a faulty processor module has been re-

(gates GW1 and GW2) allowing information patterns
to be injected into the data area (gates GW1) and the
45

micro-program

area (gates GW2) together with arrangements (the equipment associated with gates GW3

to GWS

inclusive)

providing miscellaneous control

functions. Each of the above mentioned gates, represents a block of AND gates which control the passage
of information over parallel information paths and each
block of AND gates is controlled by an address signal
for the faulty processor alone.
produced by the address decoder AD.
Considering now FIGS. 2¢ and 26 a typical processor
Each access over a processor bus, it will be recalled,
module PM is shown in the upper sections of these figcomprises the application of a location address to the
ures above the dividing line Z—Z. The processor madinformation signal highway, accompanied by a code on
ule comprises two main areas namely the micro55
the control signal highway indicating the type of access
program area 4#PROG, shown in FIG. 2a within the
required. Each address specifies the identity of the
broken line box and the data area DA. Both areas inmodule or equipment required together with the locavolve parallel path working, however, for ease of pretion within the module or equipment (i.e. storage locasentation single paths only are shown in the drawings.
tion, peripheral equipment administration register or
The data area consists of (i) a block of registers
60
diagnostic interface facility). Consequently included in
REGBLOCK, (ii) an instruction register INSTREG,
the address decoder AD is a comparator which is ar(iii) an arithmetic and logic unit MILL, (iv) a processor

ported to the maintenance personnel by way of the
monitor typewriter PM the diagnostic interface printed
circuit boards are inserted in the diagnostic interface

ranged to compare the processor module’s system iden-

module bus interface logic unit BI/FL and (v) a bus interface register, referred to as the out register OUTREG. Typically the processor module corresponds to

that shown in U.S. Pat. No. 3,787,813 in which the register block REGBLOCK contains an accumulator register stack and capability base and limit register stacks.

65

tity address with a predetermined part of the address
information applied to the peripheral bus PDN. When
coincidence is experienced the rest of the address information in the address register AR Is gated into the

address decoder to produce a selection signal to acti-

3,879,712

6

5

perform the number of slots specified by the data
written to the slot register SR.
Bit 17 - Stop at fault. This bit causes the processor to
stop when UPA equals zero, that is when it is about
to enter the fault interrupt micro-program.
Bit 18 - Stop at a particular slot. When the processor
clock is enabled the processor runs until UPA
equals the value previously written to the slot register SR. Comparator SC compares the current slot

vate the required function. The selection signals fall
into two groups shown as AWS (the write selection sig-

nal) and ARS (the read selection signals). The AWS
signals control the data pattern injecting facilities
(gates GW1 and GW2) and the miscellaneous control
functions (the equipment associated with gates GW3 to
GW5) while the ARS signals control the information
monitoring point facilities (gates GRI to GR8 inclu-

sive). The control code on the control signal highway
of the peripheral bus defines the read or write requirement of each access and consequently the address
decocer AD also inspects this control signal highway
when generating the required address signal.
The monitoring facilities provided are as follows:
a. The contents of the OUTREG (gates GR1 opened

10

clock pulse generator which is started by the setting to

15

by address signal LAR)

b. the current instruction address (gate GR2 opened

by address signal 2AR)

c. the information on highway HO (gate GR3 opened

by signal 3AR)

d.

the

information

on

highway

MO

(gate

20

GR4

opened by signal 4AR)

f. the contents of the INSTREG (gate GR6 opened by

25

30

states of bits 1 to 5 and 16 to 18 of register MREG.
Bit 1 - Single slot, i.e. one clock pulse.
Bit 2 ~ Single instruction. When the clock is enabled
the processor clock runs to complete the current

45

Bit 3 - Stop at SCR value specified by bits 8 to 23 of

struction operation.

nostic Monitor program. This program consists of a
string of diagnostic interface transactions which apply
a series of tests to the logic of the processor with diagnostic inspection of the results of the tests with the assistance of a fault dictionary.

40

instruction.

signal which clocks the SRC (bit MR13) for repeat in-

scheduled, in a background mode, to perform a diag35

setting to the “1” state of various bits of the miscella_ neous register provides the following functions by acting upon the miscellaneous logic ML:
Bit O - Enables the processor clock CLK. The number of clock pulses produced is determined by the

17 or 18). Also included in the miscellaneous logic ML
are gating arrangements to produce the signals MLS1

Once the diagnostic interface boards are in place one
of the remaining serviceable processor modules may be

GW1 opened by LAW)

b. the conditioning of the micro-bit registers UPA
and UPB (gate GW2 opened by 2AW).
The miscellaneous control functions are provided by
conditioning the miscellaneous register MREG and the
registers REG1, REG2 and the slot register SR. The

one of a number of generator control gates. Typically
the generator control gates are activated after 1 pulse
(bits MR1), when the select next instruction micro-bit
occurs (bit MR2), when the instruction address comparator IAC detects equality between the SCR value
and the value in REG2 (bits MR3, 4 or 5) or when the
slot comparator SC detects equality between the UPA

(bits MR3, MR4 or MRS), MLS2 (bits MRI and MR6)
and micro-bit control signals for the control of the micro-program decoding (bit MR7) and for the micro-bit

signal 6AR)

g. the contents of the micro-bit register UPB (gate
GR7 opened by signal 7AR)
h. the contents of the micro-address register UPA
(gate GR8 opened by signal 8AR).
The forcing facilities provided are as follows:
a. the writing of information onto highway HO (gate

the one state of any of bits 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 16, 17 or 18
of register MREG and is stopped by outputs from any

value and the value in the slot register SR (bits MR 16,

e. the information on highway M1 (gate GRS opened
by signal SAR)

address (via gated GY) with the register SR value.
Bits 19 to 23 - Not used.
Typically, the miscellaneous logic ML includes a

The view taken of the machine while implementing
the diagnostic monitor program is that of a model
which consists of one large data register and a block of
combinational logic. The outputs of the data register
provide the inputs to the large block of combinational

logic the outputs of which are fed back to inputs of the
data register. The diagnostic interface and processor
module registers provide the data register function
whereas the processor module manipulative and micro-

program areas provide the combinational logic func-

50 tion.

the data written into REG2. Comparator IAC compares the SCR value (via gates GX) with the regis-

The diagnostic tests simply consist of setting the data
register into the required state to provide the required
input conditions to the combinational logic. The outter REG2 value.
puts from the combinational logic which results will be
Bit 4 - As bit 3 but including bits 4 to 7 of SCR.
55
examined by clocking the relevant part of the data regBit 5 - As bit 4 but including bits 0 to 3 of SCR.
ister and reading its contents.
Bit 6 - Forces the data sent to REG1I on to HO if bit
As mentioned previously the diagnostic monitor runs
1 is also set (i.e. activates gate GW6 by producing
as a low priority job on a known good processor mod-

signal MLS2)

Bit 7 - Inhibit micro-program decode. This bit inhibits the micro-program decoding for the next slot

60

from the current UPA.
Bits 8 to 12 - Not used.

Bit 13 - Repeat. This bit inhibits the clocking of SCR
so that the current instruction may be repeated.
Bits 14 and 15 - Not used.
Bit 16 - Stop after ‘‘n”’ slots. When the processor

clock is enabled this bit causes the processor to

65

ule. Transfers to and from the diagnostic interface are
carried out just as though that interface unit was another module of store. The diagnostic monitor, as
shown in FIG. 3, consists essentially of three code

blocks, the CONTROL BLOCK, the COMMON
FUNCTIONS BLOCK and the SPECIAL FUNCTIONS
BLOCK and three data blocks the TEST AREA, the
INTERFACE BUFFER and the DIAGNOSTIC INTERFACE.

3,879,712
7

8

The TEST AREA contains one sub-test of the diagaostics during interpretation by the diagnostic monitor.

16) the ‘‘n” value is set in bits 0 to 6 of the data to be

written to this address. When the CPU is required to

The INTERFACE BUFFER acts as a buffer between
the diagnostic tests and the DIAGNOSTIC INTERFACE which of course is part of the faulty processor

stop at a particular slot (bit 18) the slot address is set

module itself.

the current value of UPA, over gates GY, and when co-

The CONTROL BLOCK provides the interface between the diagnostic monitor and its environment, Le.
the operating system and the maintenance engineer. It

incidence occurs the processor module clock is
stopped by the miscellaneous logic ML. A zero value
is set into SR when bit 7 is marked as a zero condition

provides input/output facilities for the monitor to the

in bits 0 to 6 of the data to be written to this address;
in both cases the slot address in SC is compared with

10

2ngineer running the diagnostics.

The COMMON FUNCTIONS BLOCK provides the
gasic features of the diagnostic monitor. The common
functions provide facilities for setting up and manipu-

in UPA is indicative of a fault interrupt condition.
When a read is performed on this address the data
gives, by way of gates GR&, the value of the address of
the current slot (i.e. the state of UPA).
Address 0500

lating the information in the INTERFACE BUFFER.

The SPECIAL FUNCTIONS BLOCK provides those
For both write and read operations this address gives
features of the diagnostic monitor which are specific to
access to and from highway HO, by way of gates GW
the type of equipment under test and in any system the
and GR3 respectively. Having written the required
number of versions of the SPECIAL BLOCK depends
value of HO to this address (i.e into register REGI) to
upon the numbers of types of equipment to be tested. 20 get that value actually on to HO gates GW6 must be acThe interface between the Diagnostic Software and
tivated by writing to address 0401, the miscellaneous
a faulty processor is provided by means of the diagnosregister MREG, with bit 6 set to activate signal MLS2.
tic interface which provides access to various points

within the faulty processor, some of which can only be
read while others of which also can be forced to a required value. Access to and from the various points is
gained from the diagnosing processor by addressing a
range of store locations whose module number (i.e. bits
12 to 23 is
111 L0000KXXX, where XX XX is variable
for each particular processor in the system.

Address 1004

25

contents of the processor highway MO by activating
gate GR4.
Address 1020
30

The various addresses used and the points they give
access to are Hsted below. The addresses are given in

octal and represent the bottom 12 bits of the address
and they are decoded by the address decoder AD of the
35
diagnostic interface to produce GW or GR signals.
Address 0401

This address activates gates GW3 to provide access
to the misceHaneous register MREG within the diag-

nostic interface itself. The miscellaneous register provides the various miscellaneous control functions listed
above to condition the miscellaneous logic ML in its
control of the processor clock CLK.

This address can only be read from and it gives the

40

This address can only be read from and gives the contents of the processor highway M1 by activating gate
GRS.
Address 2001

This address provides access to the mocrobits and
can be written-to by activating gate GW2 and readfrom by activating gates GR7 and GR8. This allows the
microbits to be forced to a required pattern or their
current pattern to be monitored. For ease of presenta-

tion it has been assumed that a single 24 bit word is produced by the microbit matrix. In practice many more
micro-bits are produced for each slot and typically a
number of addresses will be used to ailow access to up

to say 10 blocks of 20 bits each of the micro-bit pat-

Address 0404

tern.

When reading from this address gates GRI are acti-

Address 4040

vated and the contents of the QUT register are read
onto the bus PDN.

This address can only be read from and gives the
$0 value of the current setting of the instruction register
Address 0410
INSTREG by activating gates GR6.
The value of the SCR at which the CPU is required
It was mentioned above that associated with the diagto stop is written into REG2 by the activation of gates
nostic software is a so-called Interface Buffer.
GWS5 and this address is used on conjunction with bits
The contents of the Interface Buffer are as shown be-

3, 4 and 5 of the miscellaneous register.
35 low:
When the CPU has been stopped by some other
mechanism the value of the sequence control register

SCR can be found by reading from this address and in
this case the address decoder AD activates gates GR2.
Address 0420

Writing to this address the address decoder AD activates gates GW4 to condition the slot register SR to
specify either the number of slots the faulty processor
module is required to perform or the slot it is required

to stop at in conjunction with the setting of bits 16, 17
and 18 of the miscellaneous register MREG. When the
processor module is required to perform “‘n" slots (bit

60

WORD (OCTAL)

USE

00

Spare

O7
10

HO
MO
Mi
SCR
OUT
MISC. REG (Copy Read from
Interface)
FUN
REG

Ol
02
Q3
04
Os
06

12

13

SPARE

3,879,712

10

9

with the STOP AT SCR statement. The statement
causes bit 0 of CB to be set, the remaining bits of CB,

-Continued
WORD (OCTAL)
iS

16
7

USE

31

3

35

36
37

e. MONITOR MODE- This mode is identical to the
Own Mode except that upon entry to this mode the
contents of words 17 to 33 of the Interface Buffer are
dumped for later use by the Revert Statement. Words

CURRENT SLOT - UPAC

NEXT SLOT - UPAN, UPA

20

32

as well as MRB being reset.

LAST SLOT - UPAL

Ten words for ubits
UPB

17 to 33 are then cleared and bits I and 7 or MRB and
bits 0 and 6 of CB set. This mode will usually be used
when in SS or SI mode and it is required to either examine or change the contents of a register which is not di-

Misc. Reg. Buffer (referred to
as MRB)
CLOCK Buffer (referred to as CB)

|

SPARE

15

The Diagnostic Tests can only cause words 01 and 17
to 33 to be set up but can use the information in words
00 to 31. When transferring information to the diagnostic interface words 01 and 17 to 32 can be transferred,
however, when transferring information from the diagnostic Test interface to the Interface Buffer words 00
to 31 can be set-up. The transfers to and from the diagnostic interface are controlled by the CLOCK and IF
statements of a Diagnostic Language.

The Miscellaneous Register Buffer contains information which is to be written to the miscellaneous register
MREG in the diagnostic interface. The significance of

the bits within the word and their effects on the miscellaneous logic ML have already been described.
The Clock Buffer is used by the CLOCK and IF statements to control the transfers to and from the diagnostic interface slot register SR as well as being used in
conjunction with the Miscellaneous Register Buffer to
control the forcing of information on to HO and enabling the CPU Clock. The use of the Clock Buffer and
Miscellaneous Register Buffer is described more fully

tor Mode. Additionally bit 23 of CB is set.
Forcing Highway HO

20

The Diagnostic Tests may be specified by a series of
statements making up a Diagnostic Language. Typical

HO = VALUE
25

30

Before commencing any tests the faulty processor

35

The micro-program can be forced to any required
45

UPA = VALUE

The effect of this statement is to place the VALUE
in word 17 of the Interface Buffer and set bit 23 of CB.
50

55

The CLOCK Statement

Having set up the conditions for a test the test is actually performed in the faulty processor by the statement

CLOCK, which basically enables the CPU CLOCK,
However, the CLOCK statement is one of the statements which control the transfer of information between the Interface Buffer and the Test Interface itself.
The complete list of actions to be carried out by the
CLOCK statement are as follows:

cause bit 1 of MRB to be set as well as bits 0 and 6 of 60
CB, the remaining bits being reset.

i. If bit 6 of the CLOCK Buffer is found to be set HO

is transferred to the diagnostic interface.

ii. If bit 23 of the CLOCK Buffer is set then words 17
to 31 of the Interface Buffer are transferred to the diagnostic interface. These words of the Interface Buffer

c. SI MODE- Single Instruction Mode. This mode is

used when it is required that the processor performs a

perform a program and is usually used in conjunction

CLOCK BUFFER will also be set.

value by the statement:

b. SS MODE - Single Slot Mode. This mode is used
when it is required to single slot the processor through
a particular micro-program etc, The statement will

d. RUN MODE- This mode allows the processor to

To force any required microbits all that is required ts
to state the relevant microbits to be set or reset.
The effect of this is to cause the relevant bit in the ten
words of the Interface Buffer (addresses 20 to 31) to

Forcing the Micro-program Address

set.

remaining bits being reset.

iii. A label, e.g. FRED whereupon the contents of the
location referred to by FRED are forced on to HO.
iv. A label enclosed in suitable brackets, e.g. (FRED)
whereupon the absolute address of the location re-

be set or reset as required. Additionally bit 23 of the

40

mode. The possible modes are:

single instruction at full speed. The statement will
cause bit 2 of MRB to be set as well as bit 0 of CB, the

i. A signed decimal integer
it. An octal integer

Forcing Microbits

and diagnostic interface must be set into the required

a. OWN MODE- This mode is used when debugging
the data area DA of the processor, Under these circumstances the Diagnostic Programmer/Engineer is effectively providing his own micro-programs. While in this
mode the microporgram decoding is inhibited. The
statement will cause bits 1 and 7 of MRB to be set as
well as bits 0 and 6 of CB, the remaining bits being re-

VALUE can take any of the following forms:

ferred to by FRED is forced on to HO.

suitable statements are described below.
The MODE Statement

The main highway of the machine can be forced to

any required value by the statement:

in the description of the language.

The Diagnostic Language

rectly accessible via the Test Interface.
f. REVERT - This statement is used to terminate the
Monitor Mode and revert back to the original mode the
test was being performed in. It causes words 17 to 33
to be reloaded with the contents dumped by the Moni-

65

are then set to zero.

iii. Bit 23 of the CLOCK Buffer ts then reset.

iv. MBB is then ORed with the Clock Buffer and the
result written to the Miscellaneous Register MREG in

3,879,712

12

11
the diagnostic interface. This action enables the CPU

a. STOP AT UPA = nnn

clock.

v. The miscellaneous register MREG contents are

This statement can only be used in the SI and RUN

then repeatedly read from the diagnostic interface until
bit 21 is found to be set. This indicates that the proces-

MODES. When the clock of the processor is subsequently enabled it caused the processor to run until slot

vi. When the processor has stopped the SCAN rou-

“nnn” is encountered. This is detected using the slot
register SR set to nun and the slot comparator SC mon-

tines are entered to set up the interface buffer by read-

itoring, over gates GY, the current slot address in UPA

ing from the relevant addresses of the diagnostic inter-

as the faulty processor runs.

face.

This statement causes nnn to be written to address
0420 of the Test Interface and bit 18 of MRB to be set.

sor has stopped.

The IF Statement

b. STOP AFTER X SLOTS

The IF statement is used to check the result of
a Test.

This statement can only be used in the SI and RUN
MODES. When the clock of the processor is subsequently enabled it causes the processor to run for x

The general form of the IF statement is as follows.
IF

(Expression)

THEN

(Statement)

ELSE

(State-

ment)

ELSE is optional

slots.

(Statement) can be either, one of the other state-

This statement causes a pattern with bit x1 set to be

ments described above or a series of these statements.

written to address 0420 of the diagnostic interface and

20 bit 16 of MRB to be set. This allows the miscellaneous
(Expression) can take the forms described below.
logic ML to control the number of slots performed in
To check any of the words 01 to 17 of the Interface

accordance with the SR value.

Buffer
(Expression) takes the form

c. STOP AT SCR = VALUE

(Register or Highway name) = VALUE
To check individual bits or groups of bits of words 01

to

17 of the Interface

25

When the clock of the processor is subsequently en-

Buffer (Expression) takes the

abled it causes the processor to run until the SCR value

form
(Register

This statement can only be used in the RUN MODE.

or

Highway

name).

(Bit

VALUE or (Register or Highway name). (Bit Position
= VALUE (Bit Position)
(Bit Position) takes the form of

equals the required value.

Position)

The statement causes VALUE to be written to ad30

dress

0410

of the Test

Interface

(i.e.

into

register

REG2) and bits 3, 4 and 5 of MRB to be set. This

a NAME which is as-

Signed a value.

causes gates GX to be activated and the instruction ad-

To check individual microbits (Expression) takes the
form

dress comparator IAC will continuously compare the
current SCR value with the value in REG2. Coinci-

(Microbit Name) ON

35

dence causes the miscellaneous logic ML to inhibit the

or (Microbit Name } OFF

processor clock CLK.

To check that all the microbits are in a certain state

The above description has been of one embodiment
of the invention only and is not intended to be limited

(Expression) takes the form
UPB = (List of Microbits which are set)

It is possible to check the last value of the microprogram address, the current value and the next value, i.e.

40

thereto. Alternative features will readily be seen by
those skilled in the art. For example only one connection to each diagnostic interface is shown in FIG. 1 and

the one that has been decoded from the current value

it will readily be appreciated that each diagnostic inter-

but not yet clocked into UPA. For these (Expression)

face could be served by either or both peripheral bus-

takes the form
UPAL = VALUE

45

ses. In the case of both, priority demand resolution cir-

cuitry would be accommodated in each diagnostic in-

UPAC = VALUE

terface. Similarly it has been stated that in the on-line

UPAN = VALUE respectively

non-faulty state of the system the diagnostic interface

equipment is removed, however, it is possible for this
The UPR Statement
equipment to remain in situ and for the peripheral bus
50
to be broken between the last peripheral! and the first
The microbits and the micro-program address can be
diagnostic interface. Similarly the diagnostic interfaces
reset by the statement UPR. This causes a copy of MRB
may be driven directly from a specific processor bus or
to be obtained, bit 22 set and the result written to the
busses rather than by way of a multiplexor. Additionmiscellaneous register MREG in the diagnostic interally a typical diagnostic language has been disclosed
face. Words 17 to 31 of the Interface Buffer are then
$5
however it should be realised that differing processor
set to zero.
modules will require differing diagnostic interfaces and
The PRINT Statement
consequently differing language statements.

This statement will cause a message to be printed on
a teletype
PRINT (Message)

The STOP Statement

What we claim is:
60

1. A digital data processing system comprising in
combination:
a plurality of processor modules;
a plurality of data communication paths, one for each

While writing the Diagnostic Tests it may be neces-

processor module allocated on a mutually exclu-

sary to allow the faulty processor to run at normal

sive basis and arranged to carry processor module

speed through a series of slots, or in fact through a series of instructions. These facilities will be implemented
by the STOP statement which may be qualified by

a plurality of multi-port access units each including

generated address information;

a data communication path selection and termina-

3,879,712

14

13
tion means and an identity address recognition
means conditioned with a unique identity code and
responsive to said unique identity code within said

combination:

a plurality of processor modules;
a plurality of data communication paths one for each
processor module allocated on a mutually exclusive basis and arranged to carry processor module
generated address information,

address information when applied to any one of

said data communication paths;

a plurality of addressable memory modules each having a unique identity and incorporating one of said
access unit;

a group of addressable peripheral equipments cach
having a unique identity and incorporating one of

10

said access units and

a plurality of diagnostic interface units one for each
processor module and each having a unique identity and incorporating one of said access units and
including an address decoder and a plurality of address-decoder selectable monitor, control and data
injection points internal to the processing equipment of the said processor module and said address
decoder is responsive to part of said address information accompanying the unique identity code
particular to a diagnostic interface, a processor
module having a fault being diagnosed by another
processor module of said digital data processing

15

20

ual one of said first access units.
a plurality of addressable multiplexor equipments
each having a unique identity and incorporating
one of said first access units and said multiplexor
equipment is arranged to give access to a data

25

30

a group of peripheral equipments each having a
unique identity and incorporating one of said sec-

said data transfer paths,

ond access units;

3. A digital data processing system. according to

a plurality of diagnostic interface units one for each
processor module and each having a unique iden35

ister identity address information.

4. A digital data processing system according to
claim 3 wherein said processor equipment includes a
clock control device and said diagnostic interface unit
includes a clock control logic device and one of said
control registers controls the functioning of said clock

ing a unique identity and incorporating an individ-

transfer path;

dress information.

claim 2 wherein each said diagnostic interface unit includes a plurality of address-decoder selectable monitor points from which monitor information is read by
an interrogating processor module by applying to a
data communication path diagnostic interface and reg-

a plurality of addressable memory modules each hav-

A plurality of second multi-port access units each including a data transfer path selection and terminating means and an identity address recognition
means conditioned with a unique identity code and
responsive to said unique identity code within said
address information when applied to any one of

system.

2. A digital-data processing system according to
claim 1 wherein each said diagnostic interface unit includes a plurality of address-decoder selectable registers into which processor module generated control
and data injecting information is written by applying to
a data communication path said information accompanied by diagnostic interface and register identity ad-

a plurality of first multi-port access units each including a data communication path selection and terminating means and an identity address recognition
means conditioned with a unique identity code and
responsive to said unique identity code within said
address information when applied to any one of
said data communication paths,

40

45
control logic.
5. A digital data processing system comprising in

50

35

60

65

tity and incorporating one of said second access

units and including an address decoder and a plurality of address-decoder selectable monitor, control and data injection points internal to the processing equipment of the said processor module
and said address decoder is responsive to part of
said address information accompanying the unique
identity code particular to a diagnostic interface, a
processor module having a fault being diagnosed
by another processor module of said digital data
processing system.
*

Ed

*

ca

1

